---
date: 2024-04-22
project: Workday Improvements
type: notes
---
# Core Functionalities
### Guiding Principles
- Workday must be a one-stop shop for onboarding, offboarding, payroll, and time & attendance
- **Our instance needs to be fully in English, and separate from the one used by France and EPL**
	- Direct access to WorkDay rep to inquire about system usage, etc. instead of needing to go through France to ask basic questions about what the system is capable of

### Document Retention/Resources
- Track licenses and certifications
	- PCS Service Technician
	- CPR certification 
	- Medical Licenses
	- Other Professional Certifications
- Tutorial tool/guide for management functions
- Display all company assets registered to each employee
- Track all headcount file data in workday
- External link to MasterControl or other SOP repository.

### Communication
- Templated Reports
	- Creation of report templates with dynamic fields, used in automated communication.
	- Used for employee notification of {bonus, position change, pay adjustment, etc.}
	- Used for candidate notification of {declined application, accepted application, scheduled interview, job description, etc.}
	- Used for workflow approval notifications to specified workgroups.
- Periodically email employees to alert them of pending Workday notifications.
- Overdue actions and workflow approvals should be escalated to the next-level manager.
	- True for all workflows {onboarding, performance reviews, etc.}

### Structure/Hierarchy
- Management should be able to view details of all direct reports **and** their child reports
- MOS should be supervisor of MSA's
- Managers should be able to delegate tasks based on a schedule/time frame
- Workgroups
	- Define workgroups for the purposes of {notifications, workflow approvals, sensitive data restrictions}.
	- Has no impact on reporting structure.
	- {HR, Finance, IT, All Employees, etc.}
- Sensitive Data Restrictions
	- Tiered restrictions
		1. Managerial Hierarchy (Primary)
		2. Functional Workgroup (Secondary)
	- Restrict viewing compensation fields of all employees to only Finance or HR workgroup users. 
		- Only where it does not conflict with existing managerial hierarchy. Examples:
			- A Finance user can view all HR workgroup users, but not their manager(s) within Finance.
			- An HR user can view all Finance workgroup users, but not their manager(s) within HR.
	- Managers can view the compensation details (either full or partial) of direct and lower-tier indirect reports.

## Management actions that trigger an approval workflow
- submit for raises
- submit for promotions
- administer performance reviews (45, 90, semi, annual)
- Hiring manager does initial I9 verification

## Manager actions without need for prior approvals
- log development plan and career path
- issue corrective action (except FWW should route to HR)
- identify high potentials and develop succession planning
- view historical performance reviews and corrective actions for current employees
- ability to run reports without France intervention

## Employees should be able to... (all from mobile)
- Payroll
	- look at paystub
	- make changes to withholdings
	- view payroll schedule
	- view travel policy
- Time/Attendance
	- request PTO
	- request sick days/holidays
	- view holiday schedule
	- edit their scheduling availability
	- view their schedule
- Onboarding
	- Apply for a job
	- View the status of their application
	- Sign offer letter
	- Initiate background check
	- Upload personal documents
	- Acknowledge {employee handbook, attendance policy, harassment policy, job description}
	- Be directed to SOP repositories.
- Career
	- View performance reviews 
	- View corrective actions


# Workflows

## Onboarding
- Method for clearly defining the budgeted headcount for a given department/work location
- Method for clearly defining the salary budget for each job role. 
	- Specific departments/work locations can define a cost of living adjustment percentage which will be applied to each salary range.
	- Target/budget comp and bonus field.
- Method for clearly defining a sign-on bonus, if applicable, for each job requisition/open position.
- Method for clearly defining company assets to be procured when the position is filled.
- Method for clearly defining company IT systems requiring access
- Once the above have been defined as parameters, the workflow for a new {position requisition, job posting, job offer, etc.} will only require approvals if the parameters were exceeded. 
	- Estimated pay tolerance limits will be displayed during the job requisition creation process and job offer process.
- Method for logging candidate interviews for each job posting.
- Business process training materials, or link to where materials are located, as part of the onboarding experience
- Workflow would automatically notify candidates of application status.
- Workflow would automatically notify IT of equipment and systems provisioning (but only when they have been specified in the REQ)
- Workday/MIM doesn’t automatically generate an email address for consultants.  This must be requested by the hiring manager, but very rarely is and instead the hiring manager creates a ticket with us.  It would be useful to remove this additional requirement for consultants.

## Offboarding
- Managers enter request to separate an employee.
- Workflow would list all company assets that need to be recovered from the employee.
- Workflow would specify all IT credentials to invalidate.
- open new req
  
## Time and Attendance
- based on timeclock punches, recognize and track employee attendance and enforce policy
- trigger a communication once policy has been violated

## Performance Reviews
- Workflow for entire review process 
	- Eval self/mgr, calibration took place, ratings approved, promo candidate, met with EE, goals, etc. all can be itemized and tracked instead of just an inbox tasks to do
	- Eval process, should be able to click submit when done, not wait to be told when to click submit
- Comp adj, merit, promo, etc. all entered and approved in Workday.  No excel or email routing.
